# RSI Application
Why did you choose these research fields?

What are your long-range goals?

**What activities and/or hobbies demonstrate your leadership, creativity and uniqueness?**
I feel the cold wind nip at my nose and ears. The street lights are reflecting harsh orange beams against the black asphalt, just barely revealing the unimpeded path ahead. I hesitate. It isn’t too late to change my mind, to take one step back into the warmth of my house. Before I have the chance to deliberate though, I’m gone, now one street away, leaping over branches and puddles. This is my daily rhythm, rain or shine, dark or bright.

While some might consider running a hobby, for me, it is truly a lifestyle. I surround myself with runners, I eat and rest so I can run, I even plan my day around running — but most importantly, running has given me so many opportunities to connect with others, make an impact on the community, and form so many memorable experiences. Over the summer, I ran my very first half marathon on vacation California, a spontaneous decision I had made two months before. Yet, I still fully prepared and trained the most I had could given the time I had, researching along the way -- what energy gels or bloks are safest to run with, what ointments or prescription best helps with runner’s toe? While the mountainous half-marathon did not go as smoothly as I had planned, regardless, I finished, and everything I had learned stayed relevant even as I transitioned into cross country season at school.

During cross country season, I share my love for running with new members and offer guidance to them. We’re one big family, encouraging each other to grow not only as runners but as people. I constantly push others to reach past their limits, to learn the importance of grit. A few of my teammates were contemplating signing up for a half marathon, so I was able to use my own experiences and knowledge to motivate them. Having seen videos and photos of my race -- how connected I felt with everyone afterwards and just the pure joy -- they too wanted to experience that.

- Learning about the science of running/sports science/materials of shoes → tie into obsidian to keep track → obsidian hobby → physics club and neuroscience club recommendations

Running was the first community where I observed strangers coming together to support a cause larger than themselves, in charity-races, volunteer-work, and running clubs. During races, volunteers always stood at the hydration stations with a grin on their face and loud cheers, even though they had been there since the start, hours prior. Large crowds of people would turn up for charity-races, a great number of them new runners, not only to have a good race, but to raise money for a benevolent cause. As a member of the Rising New York Roadrunners, I witnessed how my actions could directly influence someones’ life. As a youth organization, we announced for races, events, conducted interviews, and gave talks spreading our love for running to the New York City community. I watched as smiles spread on parents and kids’ faces as they watched this band of kids of all ages take the stage, speaking about their passion.