#essay 

Furthermore, I am also interested in molecular physics. Physics is at the core of biology and chemistry. To truly understand the details behind phenomena in those disciplines, one must dive deep into the physics behind them. After all, almost everything as we know it is governed and can described by physical laws. It is this ability to explain almost anything in the universe that draws me to physics. Over the summer, in the Garcia Summer Research Program at Stony Brook University, I worked under Professor Yuefan Deng to develop a deep learning model for learning the Lennard-Jones potential in ellipsoids. While the core of the project was physics, in developing a model that could dynamically parameterize the potential based on the parameters of the ellipsoids, it could have a tremendous effect on molecular dynamics simulations, which are used to investigate both biological and chemical research topics. 

Based on my previous research experiences in this subfield, I would like to explore the use of physics-informed neural networks to model phase transitions. Physics-informed neural networks allow for constraints to be put on the model enabling more accurate and efficient representations of systems. In particular, they are adept at dealing with partial differential equations, which are commonly employed in the representation of phase transitions. Moreover, I am amazed at how two vastly different phenomena at first glance, can be quite similar in their characteristics of phase transition. Sure, you have the everyday example of water turning into ice, but a metal transforming into a superconductor is just as much a phase transition as the former. So what governs similarities in phase transitions? Because of my prior work using models like physics informed neural networks to study systems, I am confident that I would be able to quickly pick up any skills needed and get started right away, if given the opportunity to research in this field. 