#essay 

My first concrete encounter with programming was when my brother proudly showed me a robot he programmed to perform simple tasks using an Arduino. With a few lines of code he was able to get the robot to pick up a ball on the ground, place it in a cannon that was its arm and launch it towards a target. Amazed, I wanted to do the same. As I grew up, my brother continued to show off his creations, introducing me to new languages and the possibilities they provided. At one point, this was the Linux operating system, with many distributions and endless customizability. While I had marveled at all the previous projects he had shown to me, it was in exploring Linux where I took my first steps into the sphere of computer programming. 

I started with the friendly Elementary OS. Out of necessity, I began to find my way around the terminal, learning common unix commands to carry out day-to-day tasks such downloading applications, and managing files. Along side this, I quickly found out about “ricing” -- the customization of one’s user interface to suit one’s needs. Eager to “perfect” the appearance of my setup, I watched and followed countless YouTube tutorials on how to customize everything from Gnome to tiling window managers like BSPWM.  I constantly chased after the sense of satisfaction that came with completing a rice and the pride that I felt when navigating an interface that I had built for myself. Because of this hobby of mine, I was able to gain experience with languages like Lua (the language used for the tiling window manager AwesomeWM) that I would not have been able to get otherwise.

Although I no longer use Linux as my daily operating system, the tools and skills I gained through the time I spent customizing it continue to help me today with my research projects. When I first learned deep learning under the mentorship of Professor Tatiana Engel, I found that my prior knowledge of common unix commands greatly aided me in interacting with training scripts, management of data, and streamlining the whole process. 

It was in my previous research experiences where I gained additional programming skills. Early on, I picked up R while working on a date palm color analysis project with Professor Flowers at NYU, so that I could perform the appropriate visualizations. When I was faced with developing a variational autoencoder for my project at the Engel Lab in Princeton, I became adept at coding with Tensorflow. There, I also utilized slurm workload manager to leverage a high performance computing cluster. Likewise, in the Garcia Research Program this summer, I was exposed to PyTorch, another deep learning framework, while working under Professor Yuefan Deng to build a physics-informed neural network. Furthermore, as collaboration was integral, I became familiar with git and version control, using GitHub repositories as a way to keep everyone up-to-date.