#essay 

I was first exposed to the field of computational neuroscience when I started studying for the Brain Bee during my freshman year. I had just learned about this popular treatment for a variety of neurological disorders (the most famous being Parkinsons’), deep brain stimulation, and was intrigued by its mechanism. The device itself seemed to me like it had come straight out of a science fiction book, with the ability internally regulate neurological activity. So when I found out about a variant, “closed-loop” deep brain stimulation, I was blown away. I became increasingly curious about how such a device worked, how was it able to adjust neural stimulation dynamically? While I came to realize that closed-loop DBS was still in its early stages, I began to see the power of using computational methods and engineering in developing treatments like DBS.

Thus, armed with machine learning knowledge that I had gained from an online course, I started searching for research labs which specialized in this merging of neuroscience and computation. Eventually, I worked under Professor Tatiana Engel at Princeton where I investigated the changes in the brain states of cancerous mice during sleep using deep learning. There, I built my foundations in deep learning, learning the best practices for coding, training, and application of various models. In particular, I leveraged a variational autoencoder to analyze neural recordings in mice. This experience left me eager to approach other research questions I was curious about, leading me to meet Professor Ben Cowley at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. From the moment I first read Professor Cowley’s works, I was hooked. His research in understanding the mechanisms behind vision through studying the fruit fly was the perfect blend between computation and experimentation. Moreover, understanding vision, perhaps our most keen sense, was something that I had always wanted to uncover. Currently, I am working with Professor Cowley to develop a model of the fruit fly eye that is anatomically constrained and efficient, in the hopes of better understanding how visual features are extracted and interpreted from the environment.

The merging of computational tools such as deep learning with neuroscience is incredibly valuable and effective. Deep learning algorithms borrow architectures from the structure of the human brain, as can be seen by the fact that each unit of a deep learning model is typically called a “neuron”. Thus, they can easily be trained as a “digital twin” of a particular organisms’ brain, given the associated input. Leveraging such methods has led to breakthroughs in understanding processes like vision, sleep, and movement. Specifically, I wish to understand how the process of “reliving” memories works, in terms of the changes in the brain. As social creatures, self-reflection is common and crucial to our survival. Often, we recall happy moments, experiencing nostalgia as we feel the emotions associated with those moments in addition to a feeling of yearning. But how does the brain actually “remember” how we felt at that previous time? Sometimes the memory is so vivid that we almost seem to time-travel back to the memory, living through it all over again. Not only would the mechanisms behind this be incredibly fascinating to know, but they would have lasting implications in the treatment of psychiatric disorders like PTSD. With my previous experience in modeling brain states and neural responses, I believe that I would be properly equipped to tackle such a paramount question.

Furthermore, I am interested in 