#essay 

“Just a tiny bit less pink…” The blinking cursor hovered over a hex code in a css file I was editing. It was yet another late school night, the sky just dark enough, the time just late enough, my mind just fuzzy enough for me to edit my Obsidian vault setup for the third time that week.  What originally started as a harmless note-taking app has now become a fully-fledged hobby complete with addons and never-ending customizability.

It all traces back to the start of high school. With my plate of responsibilities now carrying twice the weight it had been, I needed a system for organizing my notes, tasks, and everything in between, whether it was for school or life. Back then, Obsidian was still the new kid on the block amongst all the other note-taking apps, but I saw the potential in its flexibility. Soon, I became obsessed with perfecting my system, breaking down every component and building it back up to fit my needs. I spent many hours working on a task prioritization workflow that enabled me to seamlessly record and access tasks on any device, a minimalistic theme that streamlined the user interface and made it easier for me to focus, and a plugin that would allow me to record a voice memo and read the text content as I played the memo. With Obsidian, the extent to which I could change and shape my productivity system was limitless. And change I did -- if I needed to implement a workflow that didn’t exist yet, I would do it myself. If I had the sudden urge to “beautify” its appearance, I would do that too. While all of these meticulous optimizations I made to my system did take countless hours, I gained a set of useful real-world skills: I quickly learned css, javascript, and other front-end-associated languages/techniques, and at a much faster pace, as I was always eager to finish my next big “update”. 

At school, I love showing off my setup to my friends, sharing how if they so desired, they could do the same. As president of Physics Club and Neuroscience Club, I continue to share the utility of Obsidian as a tool for managing knowledge, learning, and really just about any aspect of life.