#essay 

I am, by nature, a curious person. When I was little, I was that kid who always asked “Why?”. Why does the train move? Why are there hairless cats? Why are we alive? Having grown up quite a bit, this hasn’t changed. I still raise my hand in class to ask questions that may seem obvious and I continue to seek out answers. This quest for knowledge has led me to research a variety of topics, from genomics to neuroscience to even molecular physics, and has now led me to this very program.

I first heard of RSI from my research teacher. She described it as a haven for exploration and discovery, a place where you could go investigate niche topics. Naturally, I was fascinated by the prospect of piloting my own research, as I am passionate about a vast array of interests. As I researched the program in more detail, trying to understand what exactly it was all about, I came to see that it was more than your usual research camp -- it guides students through the whole research process, end to end. Because there are few opportunities for a high school student like me to learn academic writing and improve on communicating my research to others, that strongly appeals to me. Moreover, attending RSI would nurture my curiosity further: I would look forward to diving deep into my many ideas with top-of-the-field researchers and professors. Not only would I take every opportunity to learn from prominent researchers, but I would also consult fellow like-minded students. I view knowledge as this vast sky of ideas, constantly changing, shaping, and being added to. It excites me knowing that all of this is taking place every second of our lives. At this very moment, new discoveries are being made and pioneers are stepping out of their comfort zones to revolutionize fields. I have always wanted to take part in this global effort to better understand everything around us is -- really, the limitless possibilities of what contributions could be made at RSI is what compels me the most.