#essay 

My first concrete encounter with programming was when my brother proudly showed me a robot he programmed to perform simple tasks using an Arduino. With a few lines of code, which at that time, looked like a foreign language to me, he was able to get the robot to pick up a ball on the ground, place it in a cannon that was its arm and launch it towards a target. Amazed, I wanted to do the same. As I grew up, my brother continued to show off his creations, introducing me to new languages and the possibilities they provided. At one point, this was unix and the whole Linux operating system, with the many distributions and endless customizability encapsulated within. While I had marveled at all the previous projects he had shown to me, it was with Linux where I took my first steps into the sphere of computer programming. 

I started with the friendly elementary OS, a Debian-based distribution with a shallow learning curve. Out of necessity, I began to find my way around the terminal, learning common unix commands to carry out day-to-day tasks like downloading applications, managing files, etc. Along side this, I quickly found out about “ricing” -- the customization of one’s user interface to suit one’s needs. From there, I moved to Ubuntu started learning the basics of “ricing”, through direct experimentation. Eager to “perfect” the appearance of my setup, I watched and followed countless YouTube tutorials on how to customize everything from Gnome to tiling window managers like BSPWM.  I constantly chased after the sense of satisfaction that came with completing a rice and the pride that I felt when navigating an interface that I had built for myself. Because of all of this, I was able to gain experience with languages like Lua (the language used for the tiling window manager AwesomeWM) that I may not have been able to get otherwise.

Although I no longer use Linux as my daily operating system, the tools and skills I gained through the time I spent customizing it continue to help me today with my research projects. When I first tried learning deep learning under the mentorship of Professor Tatiana Engel, I found that my prior knowledge of common unix commands greatly aided me in interacting with training scripts, management of data, and streamlining the whole process. It was in my previous research experiences where I also gained additional programming skills. I became adept at using Tensorflow, a popular deep learning framework, thr