# RSI Application
Why did you choose these research fields?

What are your long-range goals?

## What activities and/or hobbies demonstrate your leadership, creativity and uniqueness?
I feel the cold wind nip at my nose and ears. The street lights are reflecting harsh orange beams against the black asphalt, just barely revealing the unimpeded path ahead. I hesitate. It isn’t too late to change my mind, to take one step back into the warmth of my house. Before I have the chance to deliberate though, I’m gone, now one street away, leaping over branches and puddles. This is my daily rhythm, rain or shine, dark or bright.

While some might consider running a hobby, for me, it is a lifestyle. I surround myself with runners, I eat and rest so I can run, and I even plan my day around running. But most importantly, running has given me opportunities to connect with others, make an impact on the community, and form so many memorable experiences. Over the summer, I ran my very first half marathon on vacation California, a spontaneous decision I had made a mere two months before. Yet, I still fully prepared and trained the most I had could given the time I had, researching along the way -- what energy gels or chews are safest to run with, what ointments or prescription best helps with runner’s toe, and what makes trail shoes so good for mountainous terrain? Every little detail came to serve a purpose on race day: the anti-blister socks kept my skin from blistering, the energy chews I had practiced running with many times gave me the boost of energy I sought, and the resilient mindset I honed during training even came into play, pushing me towards the finish line.

Training solo worked for the half marathon -- I fully immersed myself in the training process -- but during cross country season, I thrive as a member of the team. We’re one big family, encouraging each other to grow not only as runners but as people. Throughout the whole season, I share my love for running with new members and offer guidance to them.  I constantly push others to reach past their limits, to crush goals they had only dreamed of reaching. This season culminated in running my second half marathon, this time with some members of the team. Being more experienced, I offered advice to others refining my own approach along the way. Once a lofty goal proposed by an uncertain teammate, we all crossed the finish line, proud to have given an honest effort, thrilled to have done it with each other. 

Running was the first community where I observed strangers coming together to support a cause larger than themselves, in charity-races, volunteer-work, and running clubs. During races, volunteers always stood at the hydration stations with bold motivational signs and loud cheers, even though they had been there since the start, hours prior. Large crowds of people would turn up for charity-races, a great number of them new runners, not only to have a good race, but to raise money for a benevolent cause. As a member of the Rising New York Roadrunners, I witnessed how my actions could directly influence someones’ life. As a youth organization, we announced for races, events, conducted interviews, and gave talks spreading our love for running to the New York City community. I watched as smiles spread on parents and kids’ faces as they saw a band of kids of all ages take the stage, speaking about their passion.

---
“Just a tiny bit less pink…” The blinking cursor hovered over a hex code in a css file I was editing. It was yet another late school night, the sky just dark enough, the time just late enough, my mind just fuzzy enough for me to edit my Obsidian vault setup for the third time that week.  What originally started as a harmless note-taking app has now become a fully-fledged hobby complete with addons and never-ending customizability.

It all traces back to the start of high school. With my plate of responsibilities now carrying twice the weight it had been, I needed a system for organizing my notes, tasks, and everything in between, whether it was for school or life. Back then, Obsidian was still the new kid on the block amongst all the other note-taking apps, but I saw the potential in its flexibility. Soon, I became obsessed with perfecting my system, breaking down every component and building it back up to fit my needs. I spent many hours working on a task prioritization workflow that enabled me to seamlessly record and access tasks on any device, a minimalistic theme that streamlined the user interface and made it easier for me to focus, and a plugin that would allow me to record a voice memo and read the text content as I played the memo. With Obsidian, the extent to which I could change and shape my productivity system was effectively limitless. And change I did -- if I needed to implement a workflow that didn’t exist yet, I would do it myself. If I had the sudden urge to “beautify” its appearance, I would do that too. While all of these meticulous optimizations I made to my system did take countless hours, I gained a set of useful real-world skills: I quickly learned css, javascript, and other front-end-associated languages/techniques, and at a much faster pace, as I was always eager to finish my next big change.

At school, I love showing off my setup to my friends, sharing how if they so desired, they could do the same. As president of Physics Club and Neuroscience Club, I continue to share the utility of Obsidian as a tool for managing knowledge, learning, and really just about any aspect of life.